# Big-Data-Analysis-Graduate-Student-Admission

# Introduction 

The United States of America is one of the most popular countries in the world which is well known for the technological advent and the quality of education provided by the universities. The facilities, quality of professors and libraries provided by most of the universities in the United States have an unmatched level. Due to this, students from all over the world apply to these universities in order to give their career a much-required boost.
Since most of the students pursuing Graduate education are international/not native students, the fees associated with the application are very high, with little or no scope of error or reapplication.
Also, keeping into mind that each country has its own grading system and education pattern, it becomes difficult to adapt to the United States application system comparing it with respective countries education application pattern. We have observed that maximum Graduate admissions reject occur due to missing document, missing transcript or lack of knowledge of the what are basic requirements to secure an admission into a university.
Also, there many websites which give partial information based on student experience, but it does not provide a definitive answer to most of the questions.
In this paper, we create visualizations from the data and try to analyze the different parameters which play a major role in deciding the admission to the university. For example, we are comparing the GRE and TOEFL values and determining the average chance of admission if the student scores in that range of GRE and TOEFL. We analyze our system from a student’s perspective, but it can be easily extended from the perspective of the universities as well.
The primary objective of this paper is to analyze the data set and apply data mining methodology which will help determine admission chances, making the admission process simpler for students applying for Graduate Studies. The application process is tedious and takes a lot of time, energy and is a multi-million business in the US. The target group for this paper is all the students/parents/aspirants who are planning to apply and pursue their graduate studies in America and help them as there is very less information available. To achieve this, we have done data preprocessing to remove the outliers. Next, we have applied various Regression models to analyze the data. We have used Multiple linear Regression, Regression Tree and KNN Regression for the above purpose. These models are been evaluated by mean square error, mean absolute error and r2 score.
